{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}{\f1 Arial;}}
\fs24
\pard\qc\b\f0\fs32 CHAPTER 2. BUSINESS ANALYSIS AND CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS (CONOPS)\par
\pard\sa120\sb120\b0\fs24

\b 2.1. Business Analysis Overview\par
\b0
This chapter presents the business context and concept of operations of the current FF3D game build from the perspective of the implemented product rather than from an earlier design intention. The objective of this chapter is to define why the product exists, what operational problem it addresses, who the relevant stakeholders are, how the current system is used in practice, and what assumptions and constraints shape its deployment.\par

From a software engineering perspective, this chapter is especially important because the project is not a generic entertainment game. It is a simulation-oriented training product with a specific educational purpose. Therefore, the analysis must reflect the actual state of the implemented game loop, the real scene flow, the local persistence model, and the runtime capabilities currently present in the codebase.\par

\b 2.1.1. Problem Statement\par
\b0
Fire prevention and firefighting training often combines classroom teaching, instructor explanation, printed or digital reference material, and periodic hands-on exercises. These methods are valuable because they establish theoretical understanding, safety awareness, and procedural familiarity. However, when considered from the viewpoint of repeatable tactical training, they reveal several structural weaknesses.\par

First, large-scale practical drills are expensive in both time and logistics. A realistic live exercise requires a controlled environment, supporting equipment, supervision, safety coordination, and a limited number of available participants. As a result, such drills cannot always be repeated frequently enough for trainees to practice the same decision pattern multiple times under varied conditions. This limitation affects the learner's ability to develop confidence through repetition.\par

Second, conventional training approaches often separate knowledge acquisition from tactical execution. A trainee may study hazard categories, read standard operating procedures, and watch videos of response actions, but these resources do not necessarily force the learner to make decisions inside a dynamic and time-sensitive environment. In particular, they do not always expose the learner to the uncertainty that characterizes real emergency response, where information is incomplete, time is limited, and decisions have consequences.\par

Third, many digital learning tools focus mainly on the physical action phase of firefighting, such as movement, equipment use, or hazard avoidance. While useful, that focus alone omits an important operational stage: the pre-deployment information gathering process. In a realistic response flow, the quality of the information collected before entering the scene directly affects later decisions. If the responder misunderstands the location of the fire, the possible presence of trapped occupants, or the type of hazard involved, then even strong on-site execution may begin from a flawed tactical foundation.\par

The current FF3D build addresses this gap by integrating information gathering and incident execution into one connected simulation loop. Instead of treating the emergency call as background narrative, the game includes a dedicated Call Phase that influences later mission configuration. The educational value of the system therefore lies not only in action-oriented gameplay, but also in helping the learner understand that early information handling changes later mission conditions.\par

In this sense, the problem addressed by FF3D is not simply the absence of firefighting game content. The deeper problem is the absence of a practical, repeatable, and consequence-aware learning environment that combines pre-deployment judgment with on-site response inside one software product.\par

[Insert Figure 2.1. Training problem context and motivation]\par

\b 2.1.2. Business Objectives\par
\b0
Based on the problem defined above, the business objectives of the current game build are formulated as follows.\par

BO-01 - Provide a repeatable training environment. The system should enable repeated practice without requiring physical drill preparation, thereby lowering the operational cost of replay and experimentation.\par
BO-02 - Cover the complete gameplay training loop. The software should support a coherent flow from scenario preparation, to incident call handling, to on-site execution, and finally to mission result review.\par
BO-03 - Preserve cause-and-effect between phases. Information collected during the Call Phase should influence the incident payload and thereby affect the mission configuration in the on-site scene.\par
BO-04 - Produce measurable feedback. The system should evaluate mission performance through objectives, fail conditions, score, and result presentation so that the learner receives structured feedback instead of only a win or loss state.\par
BO-05 - Support scenario extensibility. The game should be organized around reusable systems so that new scenarios, missions, or data-driven content can be introduced without rebuilding the whole application structure.\par
BO-06 - Support academic and instructional use. The product should be suitable for demonstration, evaluation, and reflective analysis in a learning environment, even if it does not attempt to replace formal real-world certification processes.\par

These objectives align with the current implementation. The codebase already contains a scenario selection flow, a Call Phase module, a payload transfer mechanism, a first-person on-site mission environment, a bot command system, and a mission end review flow. Therefore, the business objectives above are derived from implemented software capability rather than from an unimplemented product vision.\par

\b 2.1.3. Stakeholder Analysis\par
\b0
Stakeholder analysis for the current build must distinguish between the people who are relevant to the project and the users who directly interact with the running software.\par

The first stakeholder group is the student development team. They are responsible for the design, implementation, testing, documentation, and refinement of the system. Their interest lies in producing a stable and academically valid capstone deliverable.\par

The second stakeholder group is the academic supervision and evaluation group, including the project mentor and reviewers. Their interest lies in whether the project demonstrates coherent engineering practice, traceable requirements, an understandable architecture, and a meaningful training-oriented use case.\par

The third stakeholder group is the learner or trainee. This is the most important stakeholder from a product-use perspective. The learner interacts with the game directly and benefits from its training loop, replayability, and feedback system.\par

The fourth stakeholder group includes instructors or training facilitators who may use the product as a teaching support tool. In the current build, this group is a stakeholder rather than an implemented software role. The game does not yet provide instructor dashboards, role-based administration, or remote scenario management features.\par

A critical clarification is required here: the current build does not implement a multi-user operational system with different authenticated permissions. There is no runtime role model such as administrator, dispatcher, reviewer, or training manager inside the software itself. The executable is used locally by one player at a time. Therefore, when discussing stakeholders, the report should not confuse organizational relevance with runtime access control.\par

Table 2.1. Stakeholder analysis and interests\par
Stakeholder | Role in project | Main interest | Relation to current build\par
Development team | Design, implementation, testing, documentation | Deliver a stable and academically valid capstone product | Direct owner of the codebase and deliverables\par
Project mentor / academic reviewers | Supervision and evaluation | Engineering quality, traceability, educational value | External evaluator, not a runtime role\par
Player / trainee | Direct user of the software | Practice decision-making, response flow, and mission execution | Primary runtime user\par
Instructor / facilitator | Uses the product as a teaching support artifact | Demonstration, guided training, review support | Stakeholder only, not implemented as an in-game role\par

\b 2.1.4. Current State vs. Proposed State\par
\b0
In the current state of conventional instruction, important training components are often fragmented. Information gathering may be discussed separately from field movement. Hazard recognition may be explained through static material. Rescue and suppression priorities may be demonstrated in an isolated drill. Performance reflection may depend heavily on instructor observation and memory rather than on a structured digital result record.\par

The proposed state represented by FF3D is an integrated simulation loop in which the learner experiences multiple connected decision stages inside one software session. The player begins by selecting a scenario, moves into the Call Phase, gathers and records information, transitions into an on-site mission that is shaped by the prior phase, and then receives a structured result summary. This integration creates a more coherent learning cycle and allows the same scenario structure to be replayed under controlled conditions.\par

Another important difference is that the proposed state makes causality more visible. Instead of treating early decisions as narrative-only interaction, the game preserves them through payload data that can influence later mission setup. As a result, the learner is not only asked to perform tasks, but also to reflect on how preparation quality affects operational outcome.\par

The proposed state does not replace physical drills or certified practical training. Rather, it functions as an intermediate layer between theory and full live exercise. It is best understood as a simulation-based practice environment that helps reinforce judgment, sequencing, and operational awareness before or between more resource-intensive forms of training.\par

Table 2.2. Current state vs. proposed state\par
Aspect | Current training state | Proposed state in FF3D\par
Repetition | Limited by logistics and drill cost | Repeatable through local replayable software sessions\par
Pre-deployment judgment | Often taught indirectly or separately | Integrated through the Call Phase\par
On-site execution practice | Depends on live drill opportunity | Available through first-person mission scenes\par
Outcome review | Often instructor-dependent | Supported by result, objective, and score presentation\par
Scenario variation | Hard to organize repeatedly | Driven by scenario data and payload-based mission setup\par

\b 2.2. Concept of Operations (ConOps)\par
\b0
The Concept of Operations for FF3D describes how the current game is intended to be used as an implemented software product. This section focuses on runtime behavior, user interaction, scene flow, data transfer, and operational limits as they exist in the present build.\par

\b 2.2.1. System Overview\par
\b0
The current FF3D game is a standalone single-player PC application developed in Unity 6000.x using scene-based progression and feature-based module organization. The system is intended to simulate a training-oriented emergency response loop in which the player performs both pre-deployment information handling and on-site mission execution.\par

At a high level, the current gameplay loop can be described as follows:\par

Main Menu -> Loading Scene -> Level Select -> Call Phase -> On-site Mission Scene -> Mission Result / End Review.\par

The process begins in the Main Menu, where the player can create or continue a local profile. The Loading Scene acts as a controlled transition stage between scene changes. From there, the player enters the Level Select module and chooses a level and a scenario. The chosen scenario determines which Call Phase scenario data will be loaded and which on-site scene will eventually be used.\par

Inside the Call Phase, the player interacts with transcript-driven and report-driven interfaces to collect incident information, choose follow-up questions, extract key details, and perform risk assessment. When the player completes this phase, the system generates structured cross-scene data in the form of a call-phase result snapshot and an IncidentWorldSetupPayload.\par

The IncidentWorldSetupPayload is a central operational data object in the current build. It contains scenario and mission configuration data such as case identifier, scenario identifier, fire origin, logical fire location, hazard-related values, smoke-related values, severity band, trapped-person estimate, confidence score, and a report snapshot. This payload is then persisted through the loading-flow system and consumed by the on-site setup logic.\par

After the transition, the player enters an on-site mission scene. In that environment, the system switches from information handling to first-person incident response. The player can move through the scene, interact with doors and windows, manage equipment, respond to hazards, rescue victims, and issue orders to AI-controlled bot teammates. The mission system evaluates objectives, fail conditions, timing, and score while the player is active in the scene.\par

When the mission reaches a completed or failed state, the game presents a result-oriented review interface. This stage provides mission outcome information, scoring context, and local progression handling where applicable. From a ConOps perspective, this closes the training loop and prepares the player either to continue, replay, or return to the broader menu flow.\par

It is important to note that the current build does not expose every internal step as a visible player-facing phase. For example, payload generation and deterministic seed resolution are core internal mechanisms, but they are not separate user-facing scenes. Therefore, the operational description must distinguish between visible stages in the player journey and invisible system services that support those stages.\par

[Insert Figure 2.2. High-level operational flow of the current system]\par

\b 2.2.2. User Roles and Permissions\par
\b0
The current runtime system should be modeled with one direct user role only: the player.\par

The player is responsible for launching the application, selecting or continuing a local profile, choosing a level and scenario, completing the Call Phase, entering the on-site mission, managing equipment and actions, issuing commands to bots, and reviewing mission results. This role is both the primary user role and the central pedagogical focus of the product.\par

No other formal software role is currently implemented in the runtime application. There is no login model, no instructor console, no administrator dashboard, no remote review workflow, and no network-based session control. The game therefore does not contain a role-based permission system in the conventional software sense.\par

This distinction matters because educational stakeholders may still refer to roles such as instructor, evaluator, or training supervisor. Those labels are meaningful in a broader training context, but they should not be described as implemented in-game roles unless future versions of the software actually provide different role-specific access paths.\par

The current build is therefore best documented as follows:\par

Player: the only direct runtime role.\par
Instructor / Evaluator: external stakeholder role, not an in-game permission role.\par
Development Team / Maintainer: project-level stakeholder role, not part of runtime gameplay.\par

Table 2.3. Runtime role model and stakeholder boundary\par
Category | Name | Implemented in runtime | Notes\par
Runtime role | Player | Yes | The only direct software user during normal gameplay\par
Stakeholder | Instructor / evaluator | No | May use the product for teaching or assessment, but not as a runtime role\par
Stakeholder | Development / QA reviewer | No | Relevant to engineering workflow, not normal gameplay flow\par
System role | Administrator / dispatcher / remote reviewer | No | Not implemented in the current build\par

\b 2.2.3. Operational Environment\par
\b0
The current game operates as an offline desktop application intended for PC use. It relies on local Unity assets, local scene transitions, and local persistence mechanisms such as PlayerPrefs and profile storage. The product is designed for keyboard-and-mouse interaction in a first-person environment and assumes a standard Windows-based academic or personal computer environment.\par

From a software deployment perspective, the game uses local Unity scenes and local runtime assets. The main enabled scenes in the current build configuration include Boot Intro, Main Menu, Loading Scene, Level Select, Tutorial, Call Phase, Map1, and Map3. These scenes represent the current operational envelope of the product. Other scenes or experimental content in the repository should not automatically be interpreted as active production flow unless they are explicitly enabled or integrated into the main scene sequence.\par

The platform assumptions of the operational environment are conservative. The current build is designed for a desktop environment, with no implementation of cloud synchronization, external data services, or online multiplayer support. The system does not require internet connectivity to execute its primary loop. Session state and progression data are handled locally.\par

The operational environment also includes runtime feature modules such as UI systems, mission systems, equipment systems, minimap systems, bot command systems, and payload-driven setup systems. These operate together inside the Unity process, but they do not rely on a separate backend service layer.\par

In documentation terms, this means that FF3D should be described as a self-contained simulation product rather than a distributed training platform.\par

Table 2.4. Operational environment of the current build\par
Dimension | Current state\par
Platform | Desktop PC\par
Runtime mode | Offline, single-player\par
Engine | Unity 6000.x\par
Primary input | Keyboard and mouse\par
Persistence | Local profile and session data\par
Core scenes in flow | Boot Intro, Main Menu, Loading Scene, Level Select, Tutorial, Call Phase, Map1, Map3\par
External dependency | None required for standard runtime play\par

\b 2.2.4. Operational Scenarios\par
\b0
The following operational scenarios describe how the current game is used in practice. These scenarios are rewritten to match the implemented build and should not assume unverified design features.\par

\b Scenario 1: Standard End-to-End Training Session\par
\b0
Context: A player starts a normal training session using the current main gameplay loop.\par

Flow:\par
The player launches the application and reaches the Main Menu.\par
The player creates a new local profile or continues an existing one.\par
The system transitions through the Loading Scene into Level Select.\par
The player chooses a level and scenario from the available selection interface.\par
The system opens the corresponding Call Phase scenario.\par
During the Call Phase, the player reads transcript content, selects or confirms relevant details, asks follow-up questions, completes incident reporting fields, and performs risk assessment.\par
The system generates a call-phase result snapshot and an incident payload for the next scene.\par
The player is routed into the corresponding on-site mission scene.\par
The mission runs until success or failure conditions are reached.\par
The player reviews the mission result interface and may continue the larger progress loop from there.\par

Outcome: The player completes one full software-supported learning cycle from scenario preparation to post-mission feedback.\par

[Insert Figure 2.3. Scenario 1 operational flow]\par

\b Scenario 2: Coordinated Response with AI Bot Support\par
\b0
Context: A player enters an on-site mission that includes AI bot agents capable of receiving commands.\par

Flow:\par
The player assesses the scene and identifies operational needs such as movement, suppression, rescue, breach, or hazard isolation.\par
The player uses the bot command system to select a commandable bot and issue a context-appropriate order.\par
Depending on the situation, the player may command bots to move, extinguish, follow, rescue, hold, breach, isolate, or regroup.\par
Bots perform their assigned behavior using their own execution logic, navigation, and interaction systems.\par
The player continues contributing directly inside the mission while also coordinating bot actions as part of incident management.\par

Outcome: The player practices distributed task execution and command-oriented thinking rather than completing every task manually.\par

[Insert Figure 2.4. Scenario 2 bot coordination flow]\par

\b Scenario 3: Hazard Recognition and Environmental Adaptation\par
\b0
Context: A player encounters an on-site mission in which smoke, fire spread, and hazard-related factors influence movement and decision-making.\par

Flow:\par
The player enters the mission scene that has been configured by the transferred incident payload.\par
The player observes environmental conditions such as active fire, restricted visibility, smoke accumulation, and risk-related scene context.\par
The player chooses appropriate tools and protective equipment when available.\par
The player may interact with environmental elements such as windows, doors, and mission objects to gain access, reduce obstacles, or improve survivability.\par
The mission system evaluates the consequences of these actions through objective progress, fail conditions, and scoring.\par

Outcome: The player learns to adapt actions to environmental risk rather than treating the mission as a simple linear action sequence.\par

[Insert Figure 2.5. Scenario 3 environmental hazard flow]\par

\b Scenario 4: Victim Rescue and Safe-Zone Delivery\par
\b0
Context: A player performs rescue tasks involving victim condition, movement, and delivery objectives.\par

Flow:\par
The player locates one or more victims inside the mission environment.\par
The player uses the available interaction flow to engage with the victim according to the victim's state and the current rescue context.\par
The player may stabilize, carry, or otherwise handle the rescue target depending on scene configuration and available systems.\par
The player then delivers the rescued target to a designated safe zone or rescue completion area recognized by the mission logic.\par
The mission system updates progress accordingly and incorporates the rescue outcome into the final mission result.\par

Outcome: The player practices rescue prioritization and victim handling as an integral part of the mission rather than as a separate mini-game.\par

[Insert Figure 2.6. Scenario 4 rescue flow]\par

\b Scenario 5: Result Review and Progress Continuation\par
\b0
Context: A player reaches the end of a mission and uses result information to continue training.\par

Flow:\par
After the mission reaches a completed or failed state, the result-oriented overlay and review interface becomes available.\par
The player reviews objective status, score-related information, and completion outcome.\par
Where applicable, the system persists completion-related data to the player's local progress record.\par
The player may then return to the broader menu flow, continue progression, or begin another scenario.\par

Outcome: The product supports iterative training through local progression and repeatable feedback.\par

[Insert Figure 2.7. Scenario 5 result review flow]\par

\b 2.2.5. System Interfaces\par
\b0
The current FF3D build is primarily defined by internal runtime interfaces rather than external enterprise integrations. The most relevant interfaces are described below.\par

User interaction interface: This includes keyboard-and-mouse control for movement, camera direction, interaction, inventory usage, equipment handling, command issuing, minimap behavior, and dispatch-note related interaction.\par

Scenario selection interface: The Level Select system allows the player to choose a level and scenario. It maps that selection into the loading-flow state so the next scene can be prepared correctly.\par

Call Phase interface: This consists of transcript presentation, follow-up question selection, extraction and report entry components, and risk assessment components. Together, these interfaces capture the pre-deployment part of the training loop.\par

Cross-scene state interface: The LoadingFlowState service acts as a local transfer mechanism for pending target scene information, scenario resource paths, case identifiers, pending on-site scene name, call-phase result snapshot, and IncidentWorldSetupPayload.\par

On-site gameplay interface: Inside the mission scene, the player interacts with the mission system, interaction system, inventory system, equipment systems, bot command system, minimap system, and HUD system.\par

Persistence interface: The current build stores profile and progress data locally. Player profile continuation and mission completion recording are part of the implemented runtime behavior.\par

Notably absent interfaces include external authentication, cloud synchronization, remote telemetry transmission, multiplayer networking, and external dispatch integration. These are outside the current operational scope.\par

Table 2.5. Implemented system interfaces\par
Interface | Purpose | Implemented through\par
Menu and profile interface | Create or continue local progress | MainMenuScript, PlayerProgressProfileStore\par
Scenario selection interface | Choose level and scenario | LevelSelectSceneController, LevelScenarioCatalog\par
Call Phase interface | Gather and report incident information | Transcript UI, IncidentReportController, AssessRisk flow\par
Cross-scene flow interface | Transfer pending scene and mission data | LoadingFlowState\par
On-site gameplay interface | Execute mission actions and interactions | FPSInteractionSystem, FPSInventorySystem, IncidentMissionSystem\par
Bot command interface | Command AI teammates | FPSCommandSystem, BotCommandAgent\par
Review interface | Display mission result and completion data | MissionEndOverlayController and related UI\par

\b 2.2.6. Constraints and Assumptions\par
\b0
The concept of operations of the current build is shaped by several practical constraints and assumptions.\par

Constraints:\par
C-01: The current build is scoped as a single-player desktop game and should not be documented as a multiplayer, cloud-based, or institution-wide distributed platform.\par
C-02: The software operates offline and uses local persistence mechanisms only.\par
C-03: The number of production-ready scenarios and content variations is limited by capstone scope, development time, and scene authoring effort.\par
C-04: Runtime behavior depends on Unity scene wiring, local assets, and ScriptableObject-driven data definitions.\par
C-05: Some repository content remains experimental, incomplete, or work in progress and should not automatically be treated as core production functionality.\par

Assumptions:\par
A-01: Players possess basic PC interaction literacy, including keyboard movement and mouse-based camera navigation.\par
A-02: The game is used as a simulation-based instructional tool and not as a replacement for formal certification or live operational qualification.\par
A-03: Mission evaluation is based on in-game objectives, fail conditions, and scoring logic, which are software-defined and not equivalent to official operational assessment standards.\par
A-04: Scenario execution depends on local configuration and pre-authored content rather than live data from external emergency systems.\par
A-05: The player accepts a simplified simulation abstraction in which training value comes from structured decision flow and repeatability, not from full real-world procedural completeness.\par

Table 2.6. Constraints and assumptions\par
Type | ID | Statement\par
Constraint | C-01 | The product is scoped as a single-player desktop game\par
Constraint | C-02 | The software operates offline and uses local persistence only\par
Constraint | C-03 | Scenario quantity and mission complexity are limited by capstone scope\par
Constraint | C-04 | Runtime behavior depends on local Unity scene wiring and asset configuration\par
Constraint | C-05 | Some repository content remains experimental or work in progress\par
Assumption | A-01 | Players have basic keyboard-and-mouse literacy\par
Assumption | A-02 | The game supports training and instruction, not formal certification\par
Assumption | A-03 | Mission evaluation is based on software-defined objectives and score logic\par
Assumption | A-04 | Scenario execution depends on local configuration, not external live systems\par
Assumption | A-05 | The simulation abstracts reality in favor of repeatable learning flow\par

\b End of Chapter 2\par
\b0
}
